hi
i'm vivia sharma also known as dr bold
and welcome to
small budget big flavors where i'll be
showing you how to combine great food
and fine dining but in a cost
effective way and today i'm going to be
showing you how to make a really
luxurious meal
that won't break the bank
[Music]
i'll be making a truffle chicken with
potato gratin
the addition of the truffle makes this
meal feel really exquisite and special
but it's so easy to make so let's get
[Music]
cooking
the first step is that we just need to
gently pull the skin away
we just don't want to break the skin so
we've just got to do it really gently
try and get as further down as you can
and then we're just going to get some
butter
and really massage it into the skin
pushing it all the way back
so once we've rubbed all the butter on
we are now ready for our truffle disks
so i've used truffle discs but you could
also use a paste as well
if you're using a paste just rub it on
like the butter but with the discs
just pop them in in between the skin and
the flesh try and get all the way back
as much as you can and then smooth the
skin down
i'm going to season my chicken with salt
but you could also use pepper as well
and now these are good to go in the
fridge whilst we make our sauce
[Music]
in a pan over at low heat
and then our cream
and then one bay leaf
some sage leaves and
one garlic clove give that a really good
stir
so now we're ready to add in the
remaining truffles
and then give it a really good stir
and then once it starts boiling we need
to take it off the heat
set it aside for about 30 minutes so
that cream can absorb all the delicious
flavors
so we've set our creamy sauce aside and
now we're ready to prepare our potatoes
i'm using a marist piper potato but you
could always use a king edward
so now we've peeled our potatoes we're
ready to slice them
so i'm using a sharp knife but you could
actually use a mandolin
either way please be careful it's really
important here that we finely chop the
potatoes
because when it comes to layering up
then you get those
beautiful layers when you cut into it
once it's all cooked
and so it'll look really special
now we're ready to sieve our sauce
so just carefully pour it onto our sieve
and we'll only be using
the truffles from this in this recipe
now we can start layering up our
potatoes
i've already greased my baking dish with
some butter
and this is a really important step so
we need to make sure that we get
all the potatoes nicely tightly packed
so when it comes to
serving the dish you get all those
beautiful layers we've also preheated
our oven to 180 degrees
once we've assorted all of our potatoes
and popped our chicken on top we can pop
it straight in the oven to cook
and then once we've done our potato
layer
we can add the truffles from the cream
sauce
in between potatoes
just doing a random pattern doesn't
really matter and then we're ready for
our next layer of potatoes
so now we're ready to pour the creamy
sauce over the potatoes
and this is really going to help enhance
the flavors of the whole meal
just pour it on evenly so now we're just
going to sprinkle
on some parmesan cheese all over the
potatoes
[Music]
so now we're just going to sprinkle on
some chopped up sage leaves
so i've taken out our chicken leg and
thigh out of the fridge and we're ready
to pop it on
to our potatoes and then this is good to
go
into the oven at 180 degrees for about
an hour until the chicken is cooked
through
it's nice and crispy and golden on top
so i've just taken out the truffle
chicken from the oven
and look how delicious it looks just by
adding in some truffle i've made myself
a really exquisite and special meal
i've even made the napkins look really
fancy i cannot wait to show my husband
to let's dish up this smells absolutely
delicious
i've got some beautiful layered potatoes
[Music]
you